i know there are lies about me on the
internet and i know there are people
with really bad intentions
all over the internet all over the world
and right here in my own apartment
building
people who see me face to face in the
gym and who may bump into me when i take
out the garbage or go to pay my rent
i know there were people in this
building who have bad motivations who
are looking around the internet
cherry-picking for just the most
negative bs
about me and what i've done with my life
and they'll choose to believe that and
they'll ignore everything positive
and they'll choose to believe it no
matter how ridiculous no matter how
easily debunked or disproven
those allegations where those rumors are
last
month in 30 days i reached more than
90 000 viewers
all right and i appreciate the hell out
of it
i have a really deep sense of gratitude
for the way in which youtube made it
possible for my message
for what i have to say about politics
and ethics
and history to matter in the lives of
tens of thousands of people
per month i am not ashamed
of what i did with my life sincerely
and genuinely but a lot of people
a lot of people are in a position where
they are ashamed
or they have some level of shame of what
they did with their life in the past
what they're still doing with their life
now just to survive just to earn a
living
and if you share an apartment building
with them
you have to actively treat them with
dignity and respect
let's say you're a left-wing american
living in an apartment building in
seattle
you find out that a guy just down the
hall
living in the same apartment building as
yourself is a full-time employee
of the border control agency ice
let's say that you've even read stories
in the newspaper
involving this guy and some of the raids
he's made against illegal immigrants
let's just say you've even read about
the brutality or shall we
say the ruthlessness of his attempts to
drag illegal immigrants out of their
apartments
and put them in chains
you got to live together you got to live
together in harmony it's not even enough
that you just
tolerate him as your neighbor you have
to make
an active effort to treat him
with some level of dignity and respect
you have to
and for me this is like the beginning of
politics
this isn't step two or three this isn't
even step one
this is step zero and we've all heard
politicians say
after they win an election i don't just
represent
the people who voted for me i don't just
represent the people who support me
implicitly they may be saying they don't
just represent the people who pay bribes
or who donated money to support their
campaign right they say
i represent everyone even my enemies
even the people who voted against me did
you ever stop
to think through what that would mean if
it were really true
if it were sincere what it would be like
for you
to live that way right for you to have
that kind of moral commitment
to not just treat with dignity and
listen to
and care about the opinions of the
people who were on your side
but the people who were your diametric
opposite
your opponents let's say
you're a right-wing american
living in los angeles california
say in your apartment building
there's a doctor who performs abortions
maybe it's even a doctor who's given
interviews
to the newspaper stating why they
support
abortions access to abortions talking
about how many abortions they perform a
year
and you're a right-wing christian who
lives in
you know a bubble of self-reinforcing
self-justifying
hype and political hysteria probably the
same way as that left-wing person lives
in a bubble of
all kinds of bad news about how terrible
ice is how the whole world ought to be
borderless and we have to have infinite
numbers of illegal immigrants and that
would be so wonderful this person's
living in a bubble of information and
misinformation about
you know abortion anti-abortion
propaganda and hysteria okay
it's not enough for you to just
tolerate them right you're living in the
same apartment together right
you actually have to make a positive
effort
to treat them with dignity and respect
you know what
in both cases you personally you as the
hypothetical person in one case another
you would actually stand to gain you'd
stand to really become a
better informed person and i really
think morally a better person if you
could relate to
this border control agent or this doctor
who performs abortions
if you could learn to see them as a
whole
human being right and if you could learn
to see the world
from their perspective a little bit even
if it were just
you had a better understanding of what
the difference was
between you and them or even if it was
just that you had the practice
overcoming
your own hostility
i'm facing a lot of hostility right now
from my neighbors from people who live
in the same apartment building with me
who work out at the same gym
who get their mail from the safe
mailboxes and honestly that's about the
only
contact we have with each other like if
we didn't if we didn't have a gym
inside the apartment building as it is i
barely
see these people but i would see you
know
even less of them you know read this
comment from
tyson and this is a comment made in
response to my most recent
youtube video if you haven't seen it
it's a video where i make a big effort
to be
upbeat and constructive and positive in
response to
a ton of really insulting really hostile
really vile messages i got
on facebook from these same people my
friends and neighbors
people who live with me here in this the
same part building quote
man get out of here dragging us into
your drama
most of your posts are set in a tone and
style that clearly shows
you're not just quote within a quote hey
man i have good intentions close quote
your reputation has been dragged through
the mud for years
and it's so easy to see just by looking
up your youtube channel name
and then scrolling through the reddit
posts i'm not here to dredge up
all the stuff you're accused of but
clearly your reputation not only here
but in other parts of the internet
across many years
dating all the way back to at least 2008
he doesn't really finish that sentence
but obviously he means to say my
reputation is
is bad or terrible give up on the good
guy act and just
accept you messed up
by the way this isn't a negative tone
because
i'm tired of the drama now i'll just
show you on screen without reading it
out
what my written reply to this guy was
it's in it's in two parts
this is the first screen but the main
thing
i'm emphasizing here again and again is
look
i am not ashamed of what i did
in my life you can hit pods if you want
to read
every word of that here's the second
screen of my reply which is brief but it
provides a map
of what i was actually doing with my
life in those years
i don't want to digress into it but i
was just talking with my girlfriend
about how she felt and how she reacted
when she
first discovered my presence in the
internet she knew me on the internet
before she knew me
face to face in real life and these same
accusations against me
that were on the internet they were
already there at that time
and they were not credible and they're
still not credible
now primarily for the entertainment of
my audience
i have made videos answering those
accusations and talking through them
but any of them if you just quote them
they're like
self-refuting they're self-like it is so
obvious
that they're badly motivated and
fictitious in nature
anyone with any degree of literacy not
even internet literacy
can see through them and can see what
the author is doing
and why now many of those voices
have actually deleted their youtube
channels in recent years or deleted
their
their blogs so there used to be a couple
of others that were from my perspective
equally just
laughable like how could anyone take
this seriously you know remember vegan
eva
so her name was ava and today she's no
longer vegan
i remember her making up these lies
about me
and i did answer the accusations i did
make responses
but like all you had to do was quote the
lie
and it was so obvious how badly
motivated it was and how to touch with
reality
and if you look at my written reply this
guy the other thing i'm saying is yeah
you know
there are lies about me on the internet
but there's also evidence
of the extraordinary life i've lived
since 2008
of the wonderful things i've done with
my life and anyone who's even just
looking at both of those
like if you were stupid enough to
believe the lies
made up about me by people like veganeva
by people like durianrider durianrider
who's now deleted
all of his videos that were denouncing
me and he now has a ton of respect for
me
because of the history he went through
with me where i stood up and did the
right thing because it was the right
thing to do
even when it wasn't in my advantage like
he really respects me and respects what
i did
when he was facing serious allegations
of criminal conduct
so a lot of the allegations that used to
be up against me have disappeared and a
lot of the people who made the
allegations
instead gained respect for me and agreed
with me after they'd
talked with me or if they made any
effort to find out what the facts were
just
just to listen to me but if you were
foolish enough
to believe the negative things said
about me on the internet but you also in
googling around we're looking at all
this
very real evidence of positive things
i've done with my life just
looking at both of those hanging in two
sides of the balance simultaneously like
well
this guy's lived an extraordinary life
in terms of what he did in asia in terms
of what he did in saskatchewan
through what he did in all these
different periods of his life and then
on the other hand there were people
who've made up some really stupid
pointless drama about him that's
basically about nothing that's of no
substance whatsoever
compared to the positive things so look
i am not ashamed of what i did
with my life sincerely and genuinely
but a lot of people a lot of people are
in a position
where they are ashamed or they have some
level of shame of what they did with
their life in the past
or what they're still doing with their
life now just to survive
just to earn a living and if you share
an apartment building with them
you have to actively treat them with
dignity and respect
at different times in my life i have
known
different women who were strippers i
didn't meet them in strip clubs
i met them through whatever weird
connection some of these women were
highly educated you know university
educated women there were other
interesting intellectual and political
things about them the reasons that i
knew them
and then i later found out they were
strippers or they talked about that
side of their life all right um i knew
one woman
who did bdsm for a living was a was a
dominatrix
all right and each of those women had a
different attitude
lately i've been hearing from a lot of
women who do only fans
which is in some ways like being a
stripper in some ways like being a bdsm
dominatrix all right and these people
some of them make a kind of ideological
commitment
that they're not going to feel ashamed
that they refuse to feel ashamed they
refuse to be intimidated
right and you know my heart goes out to
them
some of them at least will say some of
the times that they're at a family
picnic
and whether it's their brother or their
cousin
some jerk you know outs them somebody
brings it up or makes a big deal of the
fact that they're working as a stripper
or they're all if they're doing whatever
and it's not even necessarily that it's
secret
but it's like why did you have to ruin
this picnic
by you know by making that a kind of
bone of contention you know
and there are some who really do lead a
double life
or a triple life where they're
concealing it like they say they're not
ashamed of it
but they're actively not letting their
relatives or their friends or their
neighbors the other people department
building
know that they're a stripper or that
they're on only fans that they're
doing bdsm for living whatever the case
may be where they can say
that they're not ashamed but in reality
they do
live a life that's hampered by and
that it's tragic
i'm not i'm not saying they should feel
ashamed i'm saying this is a problem
they have to deal with every day and
then the worst part of all is
most of these women they're in a
situation where
many of their neighbors hate them
many of the people living in the
apartment building with them regard them
with the same disdain
or the same hatred that a right-wing
christian
has for an abortion doctor
right and of course not all their
neighbors are
christian some of them may be for
example muslim immigrants
you can imagine how hard it would be to
live as a stripper or a porn star an
only fan or someone working in bdsm
what if you have traditional muslim
neighbors what do you have traditional
eastern orthodox or greek orthodox could
be any religion but you know
you can imagine sometimes the cultural
divide is really deep by the way if you
think
if you think just people from communist
china who are of no particular religion
like they won't describe themselves as
taoist or confucian
they can be incredibly anti-abortion
incredibly anti-stripper incredibly
anti-sexual freedom of any kind
you have ultra-conservative people
coming out of a out of a
chinese culture and religious background
it's not just
muslims these are the contrasts you have
to live with
within your own apartment building and
then at the same time
there will be some people there will be
some of these people in this apartment
building
who are sexually obsessed with you who
are trying to flirt with you
who are leaving gifts on your doorstep
where they're asking themselves should i
try to get a restraining order
against this guy living in my apartment
building all right
okay i deal with this also all right
there are people who hate me
there are people who fear me and there
are people who are fascinated
with me either because they have a crush
on me
like they're infatuated with me or they
want to sleep with me
or they're just fascinated in some weird
sense
where they've seen my youtube channel
and they feel drawn to it
you know whatever word you wanna you
wanna put on it where there's a
fascination and where you wonder
you know should i be leading a double
life you know should i be living under a
false name or should i be
concealing my location here and of
course i don't i don't want to
because i'm not ashamed of what i've
done with my life i'm not ashamed of
what i did
back in the year 2008 doing humanitarian
work i'm not ashamed with what i've been
doing
on youtube now in the last seven years
all right
i'm proud of it i really feel i've made
an extraordinarily positive
contribution to other people's lives and
i've done something very positive with
my own
you know very very briefly i used to
work in the publishing industry
and i knew so many talented
hard-working people who poured their
hearts out to write a book
maybe reached 50 readers maybe it
reached a hundred
eventually in the passage of decades
maybe it would reach
500 readers okay last month
in 30 days i reached more than
90 000 viewers
all right and i appreciate the hell out
of it all right
i have a really deep sense of gratitude
for the way in which youtube made it
possible for my message
for what i have to say about politics
and ethics
and history to matter in the lives of
tens of thousands of people
per month whereas i know traditional
print media i know writing articles
i know writing books reaches this
pitiably small
audience there was one elderly gentleman
he was
already past retirement age who would a
series
of peer-reviewed articles he had a phd
and a career as a professor
you know i made some youtube videos
talking about the research in his
articles
and i sent him some friendly emails
saying hey you know i hope this will
bring some more readers
you know to your articles i've made some
some videos talking about this
and he forwarded to me the most pathetic
email
he sent me an email from the editor of
the magazine
where he'd published the article and
the editor of this magazine said hey
this is really great can you believe it
we got more than 25 people clicking on
this article
in a day thanks to the youtube video
right like if it wasn't for my youtube
video
it would have been zero or would have
been less than 25 would have been some
pitiably small number and they said oh
and they have a tracking service
and we can see like those mouse clicks
those readers looking at
they're from all over the world like
isn't this exciting
isn't this great all right so like you
know
to me getting 90 000 viewers in a month
all right it may be a failure like you
know this may be in a very real
quantitative sense
or in an economic sense a failure but to
me in a really
meaningful sense it's a success all
right this is something
i'm not ashamed of all right i'm not a
stripper
i'm not a porn star i'm i'm not doing
anything with my life
i regret i know there are lies about me
on the internet
and i know there are people with really
bad intentions
all over the internet all over the world
and right here in my own apartment
building
people who see me face to face in the
gym and you may bump into me when i take
out the garbage or go to pay my rent
i know there were people in this
building who have bad motivations
and who want to hate me and who were
looking around the internet
cherry-picking for just the most
negative bs
about me and what i've done with my life
and they'll choose to believe that and
they'll ignore everything positive
and they'll choose to believe it no
matter how ridiculous no matter how
easily debunked or disproven
those allegations or those rumors are
okay
and you know what one option is for me
one option
is to accept all of it and to accept it
warmly and magnanimously
right so you know what i'll take the
good with the bad
because for me on a really profound
level i know
you do not choose to be loved or hated
you choose to be known or unknown
and me with my little political
philosophy
no matter how unpopular no matter how
despised in the canadian cultural
context
in 2021 it may be i choose
to be known
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice